4. Write down at least 3 Linux file systems optimized especially for Flash drives(SD 
cards, USB Drives, SSD disks).

JFFS2
JFFS2 is a popular general file system for Flash. JFFS2 was designed for NOR devices, but 
also supports NAND devices. JFFS2 is a logging file system that uses i-nodes to store 
data. The file system treats each flash block separately, maintaining lists of blocks that 
contain valid nodes (clean), blocks that have some dirty i-nodes (dirty), and blocks that 
are erased and available for use (free). This provides flexibility to the garbage 
collection algorithms and allows JFFS2 to support static wear leveling by selecting blocks 
from the clean list as well as from the dirty list. Because JFFS2 builds links of nodes 
and tracks each block, RAM usage increases with the size of the device(s) used in the file 
system. With large devices, memory usage and mount time become increasingly problematic 
with JFFS2. For Flash volumes over 256MB, JFFS2 is not recommended due to excessive mount 
time and RAM usage when compared with other writable Flash file systems.

YAFFS/YAFFS2
YAFFS is a general purpose NAND file system. Unlike JFFS2, YAFFS only supports NAND. YAFFS 
assigns block sequence numbers to improve initialization and mount time. It also stores a 
representation of the file system back into Flash from RAM on shutdown. This also improves 
mount time.

LOGFS
LOGFS is a logging flash file system intended to resolve the mount performance and RAM 
scalability issues of JFFS2. In addition, LOGFS provides simple versioning capabilities in 
the form of “snapshots.” LOGFS is in the process of being refined.

UBIFS
UBIFS is a relatively new file system designed to correct some of the shortfalls of JFFS2 
and YAFFS2. UBIFS is more predictable in initialization performance and RAM requirements, 
making it a good choice for a general purpose file system as designs move to larger file 
system volume sizes.



http://digital2.org/c/choosing-a-linux-file-system-for-flash-memory-devices-book-w470.pdf
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JFFS2
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAFFS
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LogFS
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UBIFS
